---
layout: post
title: "Reading 10 Pages a Day"
date: 2022-05-27 06:00:00 +2000
---

I read a lot. For a few years now it has been a habit of mine to read every day. But I read mostly books that spark my curiosity. So when I was asked to read a book for work I knew I was in trouble.

I wanted to do it. I had the desire. 

I want to learn and become better at what I do. I consider myself a craftsman. A lifelong learner. I know my education did not stop when I graduated school.

And yet. Weeks went by. The book looming over my head. Unread.

About two weeks ago I decided to take another stab at it. This time with a plan. 10 pages a day for 10 days. At first this didn’t seem like it would make much of a difference. 10 pages won’t do much to a 374 page book.

But it will. And it does.

## What 10 pages can do

Reading just 10 pages a day is 3650 pages a year. If I did that I would consume roughly 10 of these books a year. 

I’ve been at my current job 4 years. And in that time I have read maybe 2 or 3 books directly related to work. Just 10 pages a day would have been 40 books. 40! Heck just 2 pages a day would have been 8 books. More than what I have managed to do so far.

10 pages a day didn’t seem like much progress at first. But my actual rate over the last 4 years has been less than a page per day.

## 109 pages. 3 lessons

When I started my 10 day journey I didn’t think much of it. But coming out on the other side I have (re)learned three lessons. 

These lessons are based on my reading experience but I believe they are as much about life as they are about reading.

### Daily progress

First lesson: 10 pages a day is good progress. Over time it becomes a lot of pages if done consistently. It does not feel like much but it is.

> People overestimate what can be done in one year, and underestimate what can be done in ten.

This quote [seems to originate](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2019/01/03/estimate/) in the space of invention, science, and engineering. When we attempt to predict the future we have a hard time estimating just how much technology can achieve in ten years.

On a personal level I think we often overestimate what can be done in one day and underestimate what can be done in a year.

### Getting started

Getting started was&mdash;by far&mdash;the hardest part. Sitting down. Picking up the book. You have already crossed the finish line if you get past those two (seemingly simple) steps. 

Not once I did fail to read 10 pages after I had started reading. But I did fail picking up the book more than once.

When I managed to sit down and start reading I often found myself reading much more than 10 pages. And I also found it way more pleasant than I expected just moments before sitting down. 

### Accountability and a goal

The third and final lesson is that I should track my progress and move towards a goal.

I normally enjoy reading. But for this task I had to have accountability. So [I set a daily goal and tracked my progress](https://www.theshowup.club/journeys/1). And this made all the difference. 

My desire to read wasn’t enough. I tried that premise for a while and I didn’t get far. 

When I established a clear goal (with a deadline) I started progressing consistently and ended up reading more than I would have without one.

## Conclusion

On this small journey I learned:

- Don’t underestimate daily progress.
- Getting started is the hardest part. Make it easy.
- Create accountability for yourself and establish a goal.

... along with 109 pages worth of wisdom 📖.